Introduction: 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes inflammation and ulcers (sores) the digestive tract. It is characterized by chronic Mucosal inflammation of the rectum, colon and ceacum. Dysfunctions and perturbances in the execution of the intestinal functions express themselves with a typical clinical pattern whose peculiar and crucial symptome is the diarrhea, defined as the passage of 3 or more loose or liquid stools per day, or more frequently than is normal for the individual. The stool looks unformed, fluid, containig more than 75% of water or consisting in a mass over 250gr.( Sander and Gerlach 2013). Diarrhea may be classified and differentiated according its own durationacute,a common problem that typically lasts 1 or 2 days and goes away on its own, persistent, longer than 2 weeks and less than 4 weeks; or chronic at least 4 weeks. The duration of the episodes togheter with a specific Symptomcluster suggest in addition the corresponding Atiology of the disease. Whereas acute diarrhea is expression of viral or bacterial infections, a chronical manifestation correlates itself to a non infectious basic cause, like in the case of the IBD. Common symptoms aside from bloody diarrhea, include abdominal pain, and fever. Laboratory findings typically show elevated inflammatory markers and the presence of autoantibodies (pANCA). Definitive diagnosis requires biopsies showing abnormal colonic mucosa and characteristic histopathology . Worldwide more than Millions of people are affected by typical Symptoms, which lead to a deteminating decrease and restriction of the Life’s quality and makes necessary and meaningful the continuative research for new therapuies and methods in order to support patients and their familie to achieve a worthwhile and consonant symptomes and disconfort free daily routine.(Dignass et al. 2012). Drugs as Aminosalicylic acid derivatives are the mainstay of treatment, although severe episodes typically require corticosteroids and immunosuppressants to achieve remission. Despite a multitude of therapeutical conservatives options, in the case of some patients persist the symptomatology or the compromising therapy’s side effects. At the moment represents in Germany the merely total colectomy the only alternative Ultima Ratio for such cases. In this sense the GMA (Granulocyte-monocyte-apheresis) displays an body external bypass process aimed to filtrate and absorbe a selectedleukocytespopulation. It was already tested and implemented as new treatment and strategy relatively invasive procedure in the context of multiple ulcerative colitis clinical studies. In line with this researches takes place the GRACULA clinical trial/study, examinating the efficacy of this method and its results compared to a Placebo.
